Added AIRLink flight controller page (#2140)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/flight_controller/airlink.md

# Sky-Drones AIRLink

:::warning
PX4 does not manufacture this (or any) autopilot.
Contact the [manufacturer](https://sky-drones.com/) for hardware support or compliance issues.
:::

[AIRLink](https://sky-drones.com/airlink>) stands for Artificial Intelligence & Remote Link. The unit includes a cutting-edge drone autopilot, AI mission computer and LTE/5Gs connectivity unit. AIRLink helps to reduce the time to market for new drone manufacturers from years and months down to weeks.

![AIRLink](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-main.jpg)

:::note
This flight controller is [manufacturer supported](../flight_controller/autopilot_manufacturer_supported.md).
:::

AIRLink has two computers and integrated LTE Module: 

   - The flight control computer (autopilot) has a triple-redundant vibration-dampened and temperature-stabilized IMU. 
   - The powerful AI mission computer enables advanced drone software features like computer vision and obstacle avoidance, digital HD video streaming, and payload data streaming.
   - LTE/5G and WiFi connectivity modules provide permanent broadband internet connection which is enabler for remote workflows.

> ![Three in one](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-3in1.png)

Reviewer: I would remove this image, or move it. Fine on a marketing doc, but just a waste of information space here - says nothing you didn't have in your list above.

Author: Yes, makes sense, removed now.

> ## Feature highlights

Reviewer: We use first letter capitalization

```suggestion
## Feature Highlights
```

Author: Thanks, done here and for all other places on the page.

> ## Feature highlights

Reviewer: All headings should be first-letter capitalized - just marking this one.

```suggestion
## Feature Highlights
```

Author: Thanks, done!

   - 2x CAN: CAN1, CAN2
   - USB with MAVLink
   - Serial console for debugging   
   - RC Input, SBUS input, RSSI input, PPM input
   - 16x PWM servo outputs (8 from IO, 8 from FMU)
   - 3x I2C ports
   - High-powered piezo buzzer driver
   - High-power RGB LED
   - Safety switch / LED option

- **AI Mission Computer**

   - 6-Core CPU: Dual-Core Cortex-A72 + Quad-Core Cortex-A53
   - GPU Mali-T864, OpenGL ES1.1/2.0/3.0/3.1
   - VPU with 4K VP8/9, 4K 10bits H265/H264 60fps Decoding
   - Remote power control, software reset, power down, RTC Wake-Up, sleep mode
   - RAM Dual-Channel 4GB LPDDR4
   - 16GB eMMC
   - MicroSD up to 256GB
   - Ethernet 10/100/1000 Native Gigabit
   - WiFi 802.11a/b/g/n/ac, Bluetooth
   - USB 3.0 Type C
   - 2x Video: 4-Lane MIPI CSI (FPV Camera) and 4-Lane MIPI CSI with HMDI Input (Payload Camera)

- **LTE/5G Connectivity Module**

   - Up to 600 Mbps bandwidth
   - 5G sub-6 and mmWave, SA and NSA operations
   - 4G Cat 20, up to 7xCA, 256-QAM DL/UL, 2xCA UL
   - 4 x 4 MIMO for 4G and 5G (sub-6 bands)
   - 3G HSPA+
   - Approved by JRL/JTBL, FCC, PTCRB, RED, GCF
   - Antenna, 4x4 MIMO
   - Bands: Worldwide

> ## Set content

Reviewer: Would be good to improve this title - it sounds like an instruction, but I think you mean "this is what is you get when you buy it"?

Is this the "Airlink Enterprise", or do you get the same thing in both?

Author: Right, this is the description of the kit accessories. Both editions have the same kit accessories, the only difference is the enclosure of the unit. Now changed to "Kit Accessories".

@[youtube](https://youtu.be/lex7axW8WQg)

> AIRLink set includes everything needed to setup the system and get prepared for the flight. Standard set contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AIRLink Enterprise arrives with everything needed to setup the autopilot system.

The standard set contains:
```

Author: Changed, thanks!

   - 1x HDMI to mini HDMI cable1x set of cables (7 cables for all connectors)
   
[AIRLink Telemetry](https://sky-drones.com/sets/airlink-telemetry-set.html) based on the Microhard LAN/IP-based RF micromodule is available as an add-on and is fully compatible with AIRLink.

## Editions

AIRLink editions offer different integration levels required by drone manufacturers: Enterprise and Core. AIRLink Enterprise is ideal for a quick start, evaluation and prototyping while Core is optimised for deep integration and mid-high volume manufacturing. 

**AIRLink Enterprise**

![AIRLink Enterprise](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-enterprise.jpg)

SmartAP AIRLink's Enterprise edition is intended for prototyping and low to medium volume drone production. Quick and easy installation thanks to the dedicated mounting holes and integrated heatsink for power dissipation.

**AIRLink Core**

SmartAP AIRLink's Core edition is intended for medium to high volume production and deep integration with customer's hardware. It weighs only 89 g and can be attached to a metal frame for optimum cooling.

![AIRLink Core](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-core.jpg)

>    <table>
>    <tbody>
>    <tr>
>    <th>Parameter </th>
>    <th>AIRLink Enterprise </th>
>    <th>AIRLink Core </th>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>    <td>Enclosure</td>
>    <td>Aluminum, with integrated heatsink and fan mounting option.</td>
>    <td>External heatsink or reasonable power dissipation should be provided by the design.</td>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>    <td>Dimensions</td>
>    <td>L103 x W61 x H37 mm</td>
>    <td>L100 x W57 x H22 mm</td>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>    <td>Weight</td>
>    <td>198 g</td>
>    <td>89 g</td>
>    </tr>
>    <tr>
>    <td>Ambient temperature</td>
>    <td>-40°C-..+50°C</td>
>    <td>-40°C-..+50°C</td>
>    </tr>
>    </tbody>
>    </table>

Reviewer: Easier to maintain in markdown for this width table. I used https://tableconvert.com/html-to-markdown with simple markdown table setting

```suggestion
Parameter  | AIRLink Enterprise  | AIRLink Core  
--- | --- | ---
Enclosure | Aluminum, with integrated heatsink and fan mounting option. | External heatsink or reasonable power dissipation should be provided by the design. 
Dimensions | L103 x W61 x H37 mm | L100 x W57 x H22 mm 
Weight | 198 g | 89 g 
Ambient temperature | -40°C-..+50°C | -40°C-..+50°C 
```

Reviewer: Ditto for other tables.

## Key features

- **Easy to mount**

> ![Easy mount](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-easy-to-mount.jpg)

Reviewer: Aligns image with bullet.

```suggestion
  ![Easy mount](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-easy-to-mount.jpg)
```

- **FPV camera comes as standard**

> ![FPV camera comes as standard](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-fpv-camera.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![FPV camera comes as standard](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-fpv-camera.jpg)
```

### Rear side

![Back side](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-interfaces-back.jpg)

- **Rear side interfaces:**

   - SBUS input
   - 16 PWM output channels
   - 2x LTE antenna sockets (MIMO)
   - WiFi antenna socket (AP & Station modes)

# Serial mapping

AIRLink has a large number of internal and external serial ports:

   <table>
   <tbody>
   <tr>
   <th>Serial </th>
   <th>UART </th>
   <th>Function </th>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 0</td>
   <td>USB</td>
   <td>Console</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 1</td>
   <td>UART 7</td>
   <td>Telemetry 1</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 2</td>
   <td>UART 5</td>
   <td>Telemetry 2 (used internally with Mission Computer)</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 3</td>
   <td>USART 1</td>
   <td>GPS 1</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 4</td>
   <td>UART 8</td>
   <td>GPS 2</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 5</td>
   <td>USART 3</td>
   <td>Debug console (internal connector)</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 6</td>
   <td>USART 2</td>
   <td>Telemetry 3</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>Serial 7</td>
   <td>UART 4</td>
   <td>External UART</td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

## RC Input

> ![RC Input](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-rc-input.jpg)

Reviewer: Image below text where possible.

Author: Done here and in a few other places where it was possible.

RC input is configured on the SBUS pin and is connected to IO MCU via an inverter internally. 
For PPM receivers please use RC Connector PPM pin located on the left side of the unit. 

## Outputs

AIRLink has 16 PWM ouputs. Main outputs 1-8 and connected to IO MCU. AUX outputs 1-8 are connected to FMU. 

   <table>
   <tbody>
   <tr>
   <th>Output </th>
   <th>Timer </th>
   <th>Channel </th>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 1</td>
   <td>Timer 1</td>
   <td>Channel 4</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 2</td>
   <td>Timer 1</td>
   <td>Channel 3</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 3</td>
   <td>Timer 1</td>
   <td>Channel 2</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 4</td>
   <td>Timer 1</td>
   <td>Channel 1</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 5</td>
   <td>Timer 4</td>
   <td>Channel 2</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 6</td>
   <td>Timer 4</td>
   <td>Channel 3</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 7</td>
   <td>Timer 12</td>
   <td>Channel 1</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>AUX 8</td>
   <td>Timer 12</td>
   <td>Channel 2</td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

DShot capabiltiy can be used on the first four AUX pins.

## Building firmware

:::tip
Most users will not need to build this firmware!

> It is pre-built and automatically installed by *QGroundControl* when appropriate hardware is connected.

Reviewer: What versions of PX4 can this work with? Just main, or earlier?

Reviewer: Great. If it was not in 1.13 we would have had to add a note.

:::

To [build PX4](../dev_setup/building_px4.md) for this target:
```
make sky-drones_smartap-airlink
```

## Peripherals

> Peripherals information coming soon. 

Reviewer: FMI, ETA on that?

Reviewer: Sounds great. No need to wait on it.

## Reference design

![Reference design](../../assets/flight_controller/airlink/airlink-reference-design.png)

AIRLink CAD model is available [here](https://docs.sky-drones.com/airlink/cad-model)

AIRLink Reference design can be provided by request. Get in touch at [Sky-Drones contact page](https://sky-drones.com/contact-us)

## More Information

For more information and instructions on setting up and using the AIRLink system see  [AIRLink Documentation](https://docs.sky-drones.com/airlink/)

For technical help, support and customization please get in touch at [Sky-Drones contact page](https://sky-drones.com/contact-us)

More information can be found at  [www.sky-drones.com](https://sky-drones.com)

Frequently asked questions are answered in [FAQ](https://docs.sky-drones.com/airlink/faq)

> ## Where to Buy

Reviewer: Consider moving this up near the top of the doc - it doesn't take up much space and often users are just trying to find the right link for the version to use with PX4.

Author: Thanks! Moved higher on the page.

Purchase from the original Sky-Drones Store (worldwide shipping with 1-2 days order processing time): 

 - [Buy AIRLink 4G](https://sky-drones.com/sets/airlink-enterprise-set.html)

>  - [Buy AIRLink 5G](https://sky-drones.com/sets/airlink-5g-enterprise-set.html)

Reviewer: - Should these indicate edition? E.g. Airlink 4G Enterprise?
- Should there be a purchase link for the "Core"?
